.\" pwt - Power Worktrees manual page
.\" Generated for pwt v1.0.0
.TH PWT 1 "February 2026" "pwt 0.1.9" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
pwt \- Power Worktrees: Git worktree manager for multiple projects

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pwt
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.br
.B pwt
\fIPROJECT\fR \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.br
.B pwt
\fIPROJECT\fR \fIWORKTREE\fR \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pwt
(Power Worktrees) is a comprehensive tool for managing Git worktrees across multiple projects. It provides isolated development environments with automatic port allocation, custom commands via Pwtfile, and seamless navigation between worktrees.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-project " " \fINAME\fR
Specify project explicitly (useful when running from outside a project)
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-V ", " \-\-version
Show version information

.SH COMMANDS

.SS Project Management
.TP
.B init \fR[\fIURL\fR]
Initialize a project. Without URL, configures current directory. With URL, clones and configures.
.TP
.B project list
List all configured projects
.TP
.B project show \fINAME\fR
Show project configuration
.TP
.B project set \fINAME\fR \fIKEY\fR \fIVALUE\fR
Update project configuration

.SS Worktree Operations
.TP
.B create\fR|\fBadd \fIBRANCH\fR [\fIBASE\fR] [\fI"DESCRIPTION"\fR]
Create a new worktree. Allocates port automatically and optionally creates branch.
Quoted text with spaces is auto-detected as description (not a branch name).
.RS
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
Show what would be created without creating
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-editor
Open editor after creating
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-ai
Start AI tool after creating
.TP
.BR \-\-from " " \fIREF\fR
Create from specific ref (tag, commit, branch)
.TP
.BR \-\-from\-current
Create from current branch
.TP
.BR \-\-branch " " \fINAME\fR
Use exact Git branch name while keeping the worktree name separate
.TP
.BR \-\-track " " \fIREMOTE\-BRANCH\fR
Create a local branch tracking an existing remote branch without applying branch_prefix
.RE
.TP
.B track \fIREMOTE\-BRANCH\fR [\fB\-\-name\fR \fINAME\fR]
Create a pwt-managed worktree that tracks an existing remote branch. The local
branch matches the remote branch name without applying branch_prefix. If
\fB\-\-name\fR is omitted, pwt uses a ticket-like token such as PROJ-1234 when
present, otherwise the last branch path segment.
.TP
.B adopt \fR[\fIPATH\fR]
Register an existing git worktree with pwt, allocate metadata/port, and run
standard setup hooks. Defaults to the current directory. Adopted worktrees may
live outside the configured worktrees_dir; pwt records their real path and shows
them in list, cd, use, current, and info commands.
.TP
.B setup \fR[\fIPATH\fR]
Alias for adopt.
.TP
.B remove\fR|\fBrm \fINAME\fR
Remove a worktree and clean up resources
.RS
.TP
.BR \-\-with\-branch
Also delete the branch (if merged)
.TP
.BR \-\-force\-branch
Force delete the branch (even if not merged)
.TP
.BR \-\-kill\-port
Kill processes using the port
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip confirmation prompts
.RE
.TP
.B list\fR|\fBls \fR[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
List all worktrees with status information
.RS
.TP
.BR \-\-names
Output only worktree names (for scripting)
.TP
.BR \-\-json
Output as JSON
.RE
.TP
.B tree \fR[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Visual tree view of worktrees
.RS
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-ports
Show port numbers
.RE

.SS Navigation
.TP
.B cd \fINAME\fR|\fI@\fR|\fI-\fR|\fITERM\fR
Navigate to worktree. Searches by name and description (case-insensitive).
If multiple matches found, opens fzf for selection.
Use \fB@\fR for main app, \fB-\fR for previous worktree.
.TP
.B use \fINAME\fR|\fI@\fR
Set worktree as "current" (updates symlink). Supports partial name matching.
.TP
.B current \fR[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Show current worktree
.RS
.TP
.BR \-\-resolved
Show resolved path instead of symlink
.RE
.TP
.B \-
Go to previous worktree

.SS Development
.TP
.B server\fR|\fBs \fR[\fINAME\fR]
Start development server for worktree (runs Pwtfile server command)
.TP
.B gateway up \fR[\fB\-\-port\fR \fIPORT\fR] [\fB\-\-host\fR \fIHOST\fR]
Start the project-scoped gateway proxy daemon. If a port is provided, it is
saved as the project's gateway_port. If a host is provided, it is saved as the
project's gateway_host and used in the public gateway URL.
.TP
.B gateway down
Stop the gateway proxy daemon for the current project. From outside a project,
use \fBpwt \fIPROJECT\fB gateway down\fR.
.TP
.B gateway use \fINAME\fR|\fB@\fR [\fB\-\-\fR \fISERVER_ARGS\fR...]
Route new gateway connections to the selected worktree's allocated server
port. If the target port is not listening and the project Pwtfile defines
server(), pwt starts it in the background first.
.TP
.B gateway status \fR[\fB\-\-json\fR]
Show gateway port, daemon status, and current target.
.TP
.B servers \fR[\fB\-\-all\fR] [\fB\-\-json\fR]
Show project server status, including gateway target, current worktree,
listening ports, and background server jobs. By default shows active entries;
\fB\-\-all\fR includes stopped worktrees.
.TP
.B run \fINAME\fR \fICOMMAND\fR...
Run command in specific worktree context
.TP
.B for\-each \fICOMMAND\fR...
Run command in all worktrees
.TP
.B shell \fR[\fINAME\fR]
Start interactive shell in worktree context
.TP
.B editor \fR[\fINAME\fR]
Open worktree in configured editor
.TP
.B ai \fR[\fINAME\fR]
Start AI tool (Claude Code, Cursor, etc.) in worktree

.SS Information
.TP
.B info \fINAME\fR
Show detailed worktree information, including branch, tracking target, port,
server status, directory, mode, description, created timestamp, and dirty files
.TP
.B port \fINAME\fR
Get allocated port for worktree
.TP
.B diff \fIWORKTREE1\fR \fIWORKTREE2\fR
Show git diff between two worktrees
.TP
.B doctor
Check system health and configuration
.TP
.B status \fR[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Interactive TUI dashboard (like htop)
.RS
.TP
.BR \-\-all
Show all projects (global view)
.RE

.SS Maintenance
.TP
.B repair\fR|\fBfix \fR[\fINAME\fR]
Repair broken worktree (runs Pwtfile repair command)
.TP
.B auto\-remove \fR[\fITARGET\fR]
Remove worktrees whose branches are merged into target
.TP
.B fix\-port \fINAME\fR
Resolve port conflict by allocating new port
.TP
.B restore \fINAME\fR
Recover backed up changes from trash

.SS Interactive Selection (requires fzf)
.TP
.B select \fR[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Interactive worktree selector with preview, keybindings, and query support.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-query " " \fITEXT\fR
Pre-fill search query
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dirty
Only show dirty worktrees
.RE

.SS Metadata
.TP
.B meta\fR|\fBm \fIKEY\fR
Get metadata field from current worktree (shortcut).
.TP
.B meta\fR|\fBm \fIKEY\fR \fIVALUE\fR
Set metadata field on current worktree (shortcut).
.TP
.B meta \fI"text with spaces"\fR
Set description on current worktree (space heuristic).
.TP
.B meta list
List all metadata
.TP
.B meta show \fINAME\fR
Show metadata for worktree
.TP
.B meta set \fINAME\fR \fIFIELD\fR \fIVALUE\fR
Update metadata field

.SS Steps (Pwtfile Automation)
.TP
.B steps
List available step functions from the project Pwtfile.
.TP
.B step \fINAME\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
Run a single step function (defined as step_NAME() in Pwtfile).

.SS Project Alias
.TP
.B alias \fR[\fINAME\fR|\fB\-\-clear\fR]
Set a short alias for the current project. Without arguments, shows current alias.

.SS Plugins
.TP
.B plugin list
List installed plugins
.TP
.B plugin install \fISOURCE\fR
Install plugin from file or URL
.TP
.B plugin remove \fINAME\fR
Remove plugin
.TP
.B plugin create \fINAME\fR
Create new plugin template

.SH PWTFILE
A Pwtfile is a bash script in your project root that defines custom commands. Available functions:

.TP
.B server()
Start development server. Receives $PWT_PORT, $PWT_WORKTREE, etc.
.TP
.B repair()
Fix worktree issues (reinstall deps, reset state)
.TP
.B setup()
Run after worktree creation
.TP
.B cleanup()
Run before worktree removal
.TP
.I custom_command()
Any function becomes available as \fBpwt custom_command\fR

.SS Available Variables
.TP
.B $PWT_PORT
Allocated port number
.TP
.B $PWT_WORKTREE
Worktree name
.TP
.B $PWT_WORKTREE_PATH
Full path to worktree
.TP
.B $PWT_BRANCH
Git branch name
.TP
.B $PWT_PROJECT
Project name
.TP
.B $PWT_ARGS
Arguments passed to command

.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is stored in \fB~/.pwt/\fR:

.TP
.B ~/.pwt/projects/\fINAME\fR/config.json
Project configuration (path, worktrees_dir, branch_prefix, base_port, gateway_port, gateway_host)
.TP
.B ~/.pwt/projects/\fINAME\fR/metadata.json
Worktree metadata (ports, branches, descriptions)
.TP
.B ~/.pwt/plugins/
Custom plugins

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Initialize a project:
.B pwt init
.TP
Clone and initialize:
.B pwt init git@github.com:user/repo.git
.TP
Create worktree from current branch:
.B pwt create feature-auth --from-current
.TP
Track an existing remote branch:
.B pwt track origin/team/PROJ-123
.TP
Create named worktree with exact branch:
.B pwt create PROJ-123 --branch team/PROJ-123 --from origin/team/PROJ-123
.TP
Create worktree with description:
.B pwt create PROJ-123 main "Add user authentication"
.TP
Start server:
.B pwt server my-feature
.TP
Run command in all worktrees:
.B pwt for-each npm test
.TP
Remove merged worktrees:
.B pwt auto-remove main
.TP
Use project prefix from anywhere:
.B pwt myproject list

.SH SHELL INTEGRATION
Add to your shell config:

.SS Zsh (~/.zshrc)
.nf
eval "$(pwt shell-init zsh)"
.fi

.SS Bash (~/.bashrc)
.nf
eval "$(pwt shell-init bash)"
.fi

.SS Fish (~/.config/fish/config.fish)
.nf
pwt shell-init fish | source
.fi

This enables \fBpwt cd\fR integration for actual directory change.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PWT_DEBUG
Enable debug output when set to 1
.TP
.B PWT_THEME
Theme for status TUI (default, matrix, etc.)
.TP
.B EDITOR
Editor for \fBpwt editor\fR command

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.pwt/
Main configuration directory
.TP
.I ~/.pwt/projects/
Project configurations
.TP
.I ~/.pwt/plugins/
Custom plugins
.TP
.I ~/.pwt/trash/
Backup of removed worktrees
.TP
.I Pwtfile
Project-level command definitions

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
General error
.TP
.B 2
Not found (worktree, project, etc.)
.TP
.B 3
Conflict (worktree exists, port in use)

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git-worktree (1),
.BR git (1)

.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/jonasporto/pwt/issues

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2025 Jonas Porto. MIT License.
